README.md, before:

## Jacob McCabe's Project Portfolio

Welcome to my portfolio of projects! It's a collection of projects that I completed as coursework for undergrad at Western Washington University (WWU) as well as those I did in my free time.

I graduated from WWU in Spring 2023 with a B.S. Computer Science and a B.S. Applied Mathematics. I'm passionate about machine learning, quantitative analysis, and always learning something new. When I have free time I like to read, dive into a good show, go for a bike ride, and go backpacking.

My projects at a glance:    
- Technical Stock Analysis using LSTM.
    - This project is one that I did in my free time to learn more about Long Short-Term Memory and apply it to a real world problem. It was a lot of fun and gave me a deeper understanding of how it works and how it can be used outside of NLP.
    - Purpose: Create a LSTM model to forecast stock market closing prices for General Electric, using a Simple Moving Average and Exponential Moving Average as benchmark models.
    - Outcome: With little training, the LSTM model was able to forecast stock prices - scoring RMSE = $1.74 and MAPE = 1.99% on test data, outperforming benchmark models by 290%.

- Machine Learning Algorithms.
    - This was another project that I did in my free time. It was helpful for reviewing basic ML algorithms and models. It's one that I plan to continue adding too, so stay tuned!
    - Purpose: Demonstrate a thorough understanding and demonstrate usage of various machine learning algorithms including K-Means, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machines, Neural Networks, Decision Trees, Random Forests, and Boosted Tree Ensembles.

- SOC Analyst Education Research.
    - This is research that I did from Fall 2022 - June 2023. It focused on a class that trained cyber-security students to become Security Operations Center (SOC) Analysts. We wanted to determine what led to decreased resolution time of tickets that flagged suspicious network activity.
    - To help answer this question, I used SQL to access the database, Python, and R. These tools contributed to general exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, and the final logistic regression model.
    - Purpose: Make a supervised learning model to predict the resolution time of tickets flagging suspicious network traffic to improve the education of SOC Analysts.
    - Outcome: Trained a logistic regression model able to predict ticket resolution time with 75.39% accuracy, 85.33% F-1 Score, 92.24% Recall, and 79.39% Precision.

- Gun Violence in the US: Time Series Analysis.
    - This was a project for a class I took in Fall 2021 where we were to find the best model to fit time series data that we found online.
    - Purpose: Create an ARIMA model able to predict the number of casualties resulting from acts of gun violence in the United States.
    - Outcome: It was determined that acts of gun violence in the United states occur at random: the frequency is defined by a white noise model.

- Radiotherapy Modeling.
    - This was a mathematical modeling project for a class I took in Winter 2022.
    - Purpose: Develop a strategy to determine how much of a tumor is likely to survive after a given radiotherapy treatment.
    - Outcome: A simulation representing the probability of tumor cells surviving along with an in depth analysis of the likelihood of tumor cells surviving a given treatment based upon dosimetry and probabilistic principles.

- Deadwood Studios Game.
    - This is a software project that I completed in the Fall of 2022. It is a command-line board game that was written in Java. "Deadwood Studios" is a free game, produced by Cheapass Games. 
    - It highlights my knowledge of object-oriented programming, by using a model-view-controller setup for the classes.

Commit message:

Updated readme with addition of bank marketing analysis

README.md, after:

## Jacob McCabe's Project Portfolio

Welcome to my portfolio of projects! It's a collection of projects that I completed as coursework for undergrad at Western Washington University (WWU) as well as those I did in my free time.

I graduated from WWU in Spring 2023 with a B.S. Computer Science and a B.S. Applied Mathematics. I'm passionate about machine learning, quantitative analysis, and always learning something new. When I have free time I like to read, dive into a good show, go for a bike ride, and go backpacking.

My projects at a glance:    
- Bank Marketing Analysis.
    - This is a project that I completed in my free time to do an end-to-end machine learning model. It is something that I will work on more in the future, as it has the capability to be applied in other areas where businesses want to identify clients that would subscribe to other services.
    - Purpose: Determine a way to determine which subset of clients are more likely to subscribe to a term deposit from a banking institution’s direct marketing campaign.
    - Outcome: Trained several supervised classification models, and chose the model with the highest F-Score on the test set. Accuracy = 89.9%, F-Score = 0.549 (beta = 0.5).
- Technical Stock Analysis using LSTM.
    - This project is one that I did in my free time to learn more about Long Short-Term Memory and apply it to a real world problem. It was a lot of fun and gave me a deeper understanding of how it works and how it can be used outside of NLP.
    - Purpose: Create a LSTM model to forecast stock market closing prices for General Electric, using a Simple Moving Average and Exponential Moving Average as benchmark models.
    - Outcome: With little training, the LSTM model was able to forecast stock prices - scoring RMSE = $1.74 and MAPE = 1.99% on test data, outperforming benchmark models by 290%.

- Machine Learning Algorithms.
    - This was another project that I did in my free time. It was helpful for reviewing basic ML algorithms and models. It's one that I plan to continue adding too, so stay tuned!
    - Purpose: Demonstrate a thorough understanding and demonstrate usage of various machine learning algorithms including K-Means, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machines, Neural Networks, Decision Trees, Random Forests, and Boosted Tree Ensembles.

- SOC Analyst Education Research.
    - This is research that I did from Fall 2022 - June 2023. It focused on a class that trained cyber-security students to become Security Operations Center (SOC) Analysts. We wanted to determine what led to decreased resolution time of tickets that flagged suspicious network activity.
    - To help answer this question, I used SQL to access the database, Python, and R. These tools contributed to general exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, and the final logistic regression model.
    - Purpose: Make a supervised learning model to predict the resolution time of tickets flagging suspicious network traffic to improve the education of SOC Analysts.
    - Outcome: Trained a logistic regression model able to predict ticket resolution time with 75.39% accuracy, 85.33% F-1 Score, 92.24% Recall, and 79.39% Precision.

- Gun Violence in the US: Time Series Analysis.
    - This was a project for a class I took in Fall 2021 where we were to find the best model to fit time series data that we found online.
    - Purpose: Create an ARIMA model able to predict the number of casualties resulting from acts of gun violence in the United States.
    - Outcome: It was determined that acts of gun violence in the United states occur at random: the frequency is defined by a white noise model.

- Radiotherapy Modeling.
    - This was a mathematical modeling project for a class I took in Winter 2022.
    - Purpose: Develop a strategy to determine how much of a tumor is likely to survive after a given radiotherapy treatment.
    - Outcome: A simulation representing the probability of tumor cells surviving along with an in depth analysis of the likelihood of tumor cells surviving a given treatment based upon dosimetry and probabilistic principles.

- Deadwood Studios Game.
    - This is a software project that I completed in the Fall of 2022. It is a command-line board game that was written in Java. "Deadwood Studios" is a free game, produced by Cheapass Games. 
    - It highlights my knowledge of object-oriented programming, by using a model-view-controller setup for the classes.
